+++
draft = false
abstract = "Children (less than 19 years) account for 20% of the US population but currently represent less than 2% of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) cases. Because infected children often have few or no symptoms and may not be tested, the extent of infection in children is poorly understood. METHODS During the March 18th-May 15th 2020 Louisiana Stay At Home Order, 1690 blood samples from 812 individuals from a Childrens Hospital were tested for antibodies to severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) spike protein. Demographics, COVID-19 testing, and clinical presentation abstracted from medical records were compared with local COVID-19 cases. RESULTS In total, 62 subjects (7.6%) were found to be seropositive. The median age was 11 years with 50.4% female. The presenting complaint of seropositive patients was chronic illness (43.5%). Only 18.2% had a previous positive COVID-19 PCR or antibody test. Seropositivity was significantly associated with parish (counties), race, and residence in a low-income area. Importantly, seropositivity was linearly correlated with cumulative COVID-19 case number for all ages by parish. CONCLUSION In a large retrospective study, the seropositivity prevalence for SARS-CoV-2 in children in Louisiana during the mandated Stay At Home Order was 7.6%. Residence location, race, and lower socioeconomic factors were linked to more frequent seropositivity in children and correlated to regional COVID-19 case rates. Thus, a significant number of children in Louisiana had SARS-CoV-2 infections that went undetected and unreported and may have contributed to virus transmission."
abstract_short = ""
authors = ["Monika L Dietrich", "Elizabeth B Norton", "Debra Elliott", "Ashley R Smira", "Julie A Rouelle", "Nell G Bond", "Karen Aime-Marcelin", "Alisha Prystowsky", "Rebecca Kemnitz", "Arunava Sarma", "Sarah Talia Himmelfarb", "Neha Sharma", "Addison E Stone", "Randall Craver", "Alyssa R Lindrose", "Leslie A Smitley", "Robert B Uddo", "Leann Myers", "Stacy S Drury", "John S Schieffelin", "James E Robinson", "Kevin J Zwezdaryk"]
date = "2020-07-08"
image = ""
image_preview = ""
math = false
publication = ""
publication_preprint = "medrxiv"
publication_short = ""
title = "SARS-CoV-2 Seroprevalence Rates of Children in Louisiana During the State Stay at Home Order."
doi = "10.1101/2020.07.07.20147884"
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_pdf = "http://medrxiv.org/cgi/content/short/2020.07.07.20147884.full.pdf"
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
+++