+++
draft = false
abstract = "Background: In late December of 2019, a novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) was identified in the Chinese city Wuhan among a cluster of pneumonia patients. While it is known that pregnant women have reduced immunity and they are at risk for COVID-19 infection during the current pandemic, it is not clear if the disease manifestation would be different in pregnant women from non-pregnant women. Objectives: To describe the maternal and neonatal clinical features as well as outcome of pregnancies complicated with SARS-CoV-2 infection. Methods: In this retrospective national-based study, we analyzed the medical records of all SARS-CoV-2 positive pregnant patients and their neonates who were admitted to New-Jahra Hospital, Kuwait, between March 15th 2020 and May 31st 2020. The outcomes of pregnancies were assessed until the end date of follow-up (June 15th 2020). Results: A total of 185 pregnant women were enrolled with a median age of 31 years (interquartile range, IQR: 27.5-34), and median gestational age at diagnosis was 29 weeks (IQR: 18-34). The majority (88%) of the patients had mild symptoms, with fever (58%) being the most common presenting symptom followed by cough (50.6%). During the study period, 141 (76.2%) patients continued their pregnancy, 3 (1.6%) had a miscarriage, 1 (0.5%) had intrauterine fetal death and only 2 (1.1%) patients developed severe pneumonia and required intensive care. Most of the neonates were asymptomatic, and only 2 (5%) of them tested positive on day 5 by nasopharyngeal swab testing. Conclusion: Pregnant women do not appear to be at higher risk to the COVID-19 than the general population. The clinical features of pregnant women with SARS-CoV-2 infection were similar to those of the general population having SARS-CoV-2 infection. Favorable maternal and neonatal outcomes reinforce the existing evidence and may guide healthcare professionals in the management of pregnancies complicated with SARS-CoV-2 infection."
abstract_short = ""
authors = ["Amal Ayed", "Alia Embaireeg", "Asmaa Benawadth", "Wadha Al-Fouzan", "Majeda Hammoud", "Monif Alhathal", "Abeer Alzaydai", "Mariam Ayed"]
date = "2020-07-14"
image = ""
image_preview = ""
math = false
publication = ""
publication_preprint = "medrxiv"
publication_short = ""
title = "Maternal and perinatal characteristics and outcomes of pregnancies complicated with COVID-19 in Kuwait"
doi = "10.1101/2020.07.10.20150623"
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_pdf = "http://medrxiv.org/cgi/content/short/2020.07.10.20150623.full.pdf"
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
+++