+++
draft = false
abstract = "Objectives: We aimed to measure SARS-CoV-2 serologic responses in children hospitalized with multisystem inflammatory syndrome (MIS-C) compared to COVID-19, Kawasaki Disease (KD) and other hospitalized pediatric controls. Methods: From March 17, 2020 - May 26, 2020, we prospectively identified hospitalized children at Children's Healthcare of Atlanta with MIS-C (n=10), symptomatic PCR-confirmed COVID-19 (n=10), KD (n=5), and hospitalized controls (n=4). With IRB approval, we obtained prospective and residual blood samples from these children and measured SARS-CoV-2 spike (S) receptor binding domain (RBD) IgM and IgG binding antibodies by quantitative ELISA and SARS-CoV-2 neutralizing antibodies by live-virus focus reduction neutralization assay. We statistically compared the log-transformed antibody titers among groups and performed correlation analyses using linear regression. Results: All children with MIS-C had high titers of SARS-CoV-2 RBD IgG antibodies, which correlated strongly with neutralizing antibodies (R2=0.667, P<0.001). Children with MIS-C had significantly higher SARS-CoV-2 RBD IgG antibody titers (geometric mean titer [GMT] 6800, 95%CI 3495-13231) than children with COVID-19 (GMT 626, 95%CI 251-1563, P<0.001), children with KD (GMT 124, 95%CI 91-170, P<0.001) and other hospitalized pediatric controls (GMT 85 [all below assay limit of detection], P<0.001). All children with MIS-C also had detectable RBD IgM antibodies, indicating recent SARS-CoV-2 infection. RBD IgG titers correlated with erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) (R2=0.512, P<0.046) and with hospital and ICU lengths of stay (R2=0.590, P=0.010). Conclusion: Quantitative SARS-CoV-2 RBD antibody titers may have a role in establishing the diagnosis of MIS-C, distinguishing it from other similar clinical entities, and stratifying risk for adverse outcomes."
abstract_short = ""
authors = ["Christina A. Rostad", "Ann Chahroudi", "Grace Mantus", "Stacey A. Lapp", "Mehgan Teherani", "Lisa Macoy", "Bradley S. Rostad", "Sarah S. Milla", "Keiko M. Tarquinio", "Rajit K. Basu", "Carol Kao", "W. Matthew Linam", "Matthew G. Zimmerman", "Pei-Yong Shi", "Vineet D. Menachery", "Matthew E. Oster", "Sri Edupuganti", "Evan J. Anderson", "Mehul S Suthar", "Jens Wrammert", "Preeti Jaggi"]
date = "2020-07-11"
image = ""
image_preview = ""
math = false
publication = ""
publication_preprint = "medrxiv"
publication_short = ""
title = "Serology in Children with Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome (MIS-C) associated with COVID-19"
doi = "10.1101/2020.07.10.20150755"
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_pdf = "http://medrxiv.org/cgi/content/short/2020.07.10.20150755.full.pdf"
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
+++