+++
draft = false
abstract = "Population based data on COVID-19 are essential for guiding policy. We report on the first wave of seroprevalence surveys relying upon on household probabilistic samples of 133 large sentinel cities in Brazil, including 25,025 participants from all 26 states and the Federal District. Seroprevalence of antibodies to SARS-CoV-2, assessed using a lateral flow rapid test, varied markedly across the cities and regions, from below 1% in most cities in the South and Center-West regions to up to 25% in the city of Breves in the Amazon (North) region. Eleven of the 15 cities with the highest seroprevalence were located in the North, including the six cities with highest prevalence which were located along a 2,000 km stretch of the Amazon river. Overall seroprevalence for the 90 cities with sample size of 200 or greater was 1.4% (95% CI 1.3-1.6). Extrapolating this figure to the population of these cities, which represent 25% of the country population, led to an estimate of 760,000 cases, as compared to the 104,782 cases reported in official statistics. Seroprevalence did not vary significantly between infancy and age 79 years, but fell by approximately two-thirds after age 80 years. Prevalence was highest among indigenous people (3.7%) and lowest among whites (0.6%), a difference which was maintained when analyses were restricted to the North region, where most indigenous people live. Our results suggest that pandemic is highly heterogenous, with rapid escalation in the North and Northeast, and slow progression in the South and Center-West regions."
abstract_short = ""
authors = ["Pedro Hallal", "Fernando Hartwig", "Bernardo Horta", "Gabriel D Victora", "Mariangela Silveira", "Claudio Struchiner", "Luis Paulo Vidaletti", "Nelson Neumann", "Lucia C Pellanda", "Odir A Dellagostin", "Marcelo N Burattini", "Ana M Menezes", "Fernando C Barros", "Aluisio J Barros", "Cesar G Victora"]
date = "2020-05-30"
image = ""
image_preview = ""
math = false
publication = ""
publication_preprint = "medrxiv"
publication_short = ""
title = "Remarkable variability in SARS-CoV-2 antibodies across Brazilian regions: nationwide serological household survey in 27 states"
doi = "10.1101/2020.05.30.20117531"
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_pdf = "http://medrxiv.org/cgi/content/short/2020.05.30.20117531.full.pdf"
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
+++