+++
draft = false
abstract = "Objectives: To assess the performance (sensitivity and specificity) of the Abbott Architect SARS-CoV-2 IgG antibody assay across three clinical settings. Methods: Antibody testing was performed on three clinical cohorts of COVID-19 disease: hospitalised patients with PCR confirmation, hospitalized patients with a clinical diagnosis but negative PCR, and symptomatic healthcare workers (HCWs). Pre-pandemic respiratory infection sera were tested as negative controls. The sensitivity of the assay was calculated at different time points (<5 days, 5-9 days, 10-14 days, 15-19 days, >20 days, >42 days), and compared between cohorts. Results: Performance of the Abbot Architect SARS-CoV-2 assay varied significantly between cohorts. For PCR confirmed hospitalised patients (n = 114), early sensitivity was low: <5 days: 44.4% (95%CI: 18.9%-73.3%), 5-9 days: 32.6% (95%CI, 20.5%-47.5%), 10-14 days: 65.2% (95% CI 44.9%-81.2%), 15-20 days: 66.7% (95% CI: 39.1%-86.2%) but by day 20, sensitivity was 100% (95%CI, 86.2-100%). In contrast, 17 out of 114 symptomatic healthcare workers tested at >20 days had negative results, generating a sensitivity of 85.1% (95%CI, 77.4% - 90.5%). All pre-pandemic sera were negative, a specificity of 100%. Seroconversion rates were similar for PCR positive and PCR negative hospitalised cases. Conclusions: The sensitivity of the Abbot Architect SARS-CoV-2 IgG assay increases over time, with sensitivity not peaking until 20 days post symptoms. Performance varied markedly by setting, with sensitivity significantly worse in symptomatic healthcare workers than in the hospitalised cohort. Clinicians, policymakers, and patients should be aware of the reduced sensitivity in this setting."
abstract_short = ""
authors = ["Fergus Hamilton", "Peter Muir", "Marie Attwood", "Alan Noel", "Barry Vipond", "Richard Hopes", "Ed Moran", "Nick Maskell", "Deborah Warwick", "Mahableshwar Albur", "Jonathan Turner", "Alasdair P MacGowan", "David T Arnold"]
date = "2020-07-04"
image = ""
image_preview = ""
math = false
publication = ""
publication_preprint = "medrxiv"
publication_short = ""
title = "Kinetics and performance of the Abbott Architect SARS-CoV-2 IgG antibody assay"
doi = "10.1101/2020.07.03.20145722"
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_pdf = "http://medrxiv.org/cgi/content/short/2020.07.03.20145722.full.pdf"
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
+++