+++
draft = false
abstract = "Background The correlates of protection against SARS-CoV-2 and their longevity remain unclear. Studies in severely ill individuals have identified robust cellular and humoral immune responses against the virus. Asymptomatic infection with SARS-CoV-2 has also been described, but it is unknown whether this is sufficient to produce antibody responses. Methods We performed a cross-sectional study recruiting 554 health care workers from University Hospitals Birmingham NHS Foundation Trust who were at work and asymptomatic. Participants were tested for current infection with SARS-CoV-2 by nasopharyngeal swab for real-time polymerase chain reaction and for seroconversion by the measurement of anti-SARS-CoV-2 spike glycoprotein antibodies by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay. Results were interpreted in the context of previous, self-reported symptoms of illness consistent with COVID-19. Results The point prevalence of infection with SARS-CoV-2, determined by the detection of SARS-CoV-2 RNA on nasopharnygeal swab was 2.39% (n=13/544). Serum was available on 516 participants. The overall rate of seroconversion in the cohort was 24.4% (n=126/516). Individuals who had previously experienced a symptomatic illness consistent with COVID-19 had significantly greater seroconversion rates than those who had remained asymptomatic (37.5% vs 17.1%, {chi}2 =21.1034, p<0.0001). In the week preceding peak COVID-19-related mortality at UHBFT, seroconversion rates amongst those who were suffering from symptomatic illnesses peaked at 77.8%. Prior symptomatic illness generated quantitatively higher antibody responses than asymptomatic seroconversion. Seroconversion rates were highest amongst those working in housekeeping (34.5%), acute medicine (33.3%) and general internal medicine (30.3%) with lower rates observed in participants working in intensive care (14.8%) and emergency medicine (13.3%). Conclusions In a large cross-sectional seroprevalence study of health-care workers, we demonstrate that asymptomatic seroconversion occurs, however prior symptomatic illness is associated with quantitatively higher antibody responses. The identification that the potential for seroconversion in health-care workers can associate differentially with certain hospital departments may inform future infection control and occupational health practices."
abstract_short = ""
authors = ["Adrian M Shields", "Sian E Faustini", "Marisol Perez-Toledo", "Sian Jossi", "Erin L Aldera", "Joel D Allen", "Saly Al-Taei", "Claire Backhouse", "Andrew Bosworth", "Lyndsey Dunbar", "Daniel Ebanks", "Beena Emmanuel", "Joanne Grey", "I Michael Kidd", "Golaeh McGinnell", "Dee McLoughlin", "Gabriella Morley", "Danai Papakonstantinou", "Oliver Pickles", "Charlotte Poxon", "Megan Richter", "Eloise Walker", "Kasun Wanigasooriya", "Yasunori Watanabe", "Celina Whalley", "Agnieszka E Zielinska", "Max Crispin", "David C Wraith", "Andrew D Beggs", "Adam F Cunningham", "Mark T Drayson", "Alex G Richter"]
date = "2020-05-19"
image = ""
image_preview = ""
math = false
publication = ""
publication_preprint = "medrxiv"
publication_short = ""
title = "SARS-CoV-2 seroconversion in health care workers"
doi = "10.1101/2020.05.18.20105197"
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_pdf = "http://medrxiv.org/cgi/content/short/2020.05.18.20105197.full.pdf"
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
+++