+++
draft = false
abstract = "Abstract A study was conducted to determine the seroprevalence of antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 among public community and health care workers in Alzintan City, Libya. During the period from 2/4/2020 to 18/5/2020, a total of 219 blood samples were collected and analyzed for the presence of antibodies against SARS-CoV-2. Collection of samples were divided in two categories; random samples from public community and samples from health care workers belong to two Governmental hospitals and one private clinic. One Step Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) IgM/IgG Antibody Test was used. Out of the 219 samples tested, 6 (2.74%) samples were seropositive for SARS-CoV-2. All health-care workers were tested negative. All positive cases were females and 5 of them aged between 44 to 75 years and one aged 32 years. The prevalence in young females ([&le;]40 years) was 1.4% in total young females tested in the study and 1.75% in young females taken from public community. The prevalence in older females aged ( 40 years), was 11.1% in total females tested and 13.9% in females taken from public community. In conclusion, the preliminary investigation of SARS-CoV-2 revealed considerable prevalence in Alzintan City although the disease seems to be in its mild form. Active surveillance studies with high number of samples using both virological and serological tests are in urgent need."
abstract_short = ""
authors = ["ABDULWAHAB M. KAMMON", "Ali A. El-Arabi", "Esadk A. Erhouma", "Taha M. Mehemed", "Othman A. Mohamed"]
date = "2020-05-26"
image = ""
image_preview = ""
math = false
publication = ""
publication_short = ""
publication_preprint = "medrxiv"
title = "Seroprevalence of antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 among public community and health-care workers in Alzintan City of Libya"
doi = "10.1101/2020.05.25.20109470"
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_pdf = "http://medrxiv.org/cgi/content/short/2020.05.25.20109470.full.pdf"
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
+++