+++
draft = false
abstract = "Background: Increasing evidence has been emerging of anosmia and dysgeusia as frequently reported symptoms in COVID-19. Improving our understanding of these presenting symptoms may facilitate the prompt recognition of the disease in emergency departments and prevent further transmission. Methods: We examined a cross-sectional cohort using New York City emergency department syndromic surveillance data for March and April 2020. Emergency department visits for anosmia and/or dysgeusia were identified and subsequently matched to the Electronic Clinical Laboratory Reporting System to determine testing results for SARS-CoV-2. Results: Of the 683 patients with anosmia and/or dysgeusia included, SARS-CoV-2 testing was performed for 232 (34%) and 168 (72%) were found to be positive. Median age of all patients presenting with anosmia and/or dysgeusia symptoms was 38, and 54% were female. Anosmia and/or dysgeusia was the sole complaint of 158 (23%) patients, of whom 35 were tested for SARS-CoV-2 and 23 (66%) were positive. While the remaining patients presented with at least one other symptom, nearly half of all patients (n=334, 49%) and more than a third of those who tested positive (n=62, 37%) did not have any of the CDC-established symptoms used for screening of COVID-19 such as fever, cough, shortness of breath, or sore throat. Conclusions and Relevance: Anosmia and/or dysgeusia have been frequent complaints among patients presenting to emergency departments during the COVID-19 pandemic, and, while only a small proportion of patients ultimately underwent testing for SARS-CoV-19, the majority of patients tested have been positive. Anosmia and dysgeusia likely represent underrecognized symptoms of COVID-19 but may have important future implications in disease diagnosis and surveillance."
abstract_short = ""
authors = ["Tina Z. Wang", "Jessica Sell", "Don Weiss", "Ramona Lall"]
date = "2020-07-07"
image = ""
image_preview = ""
math = false
publication = ""
publication_preprint = "medrxiv"
publication_short = ""
title = "COVID-19 presenting as anosmia and dysgeusia in New York City emergency departments, March - April, 2020"
doi = "10.1101/2020.07.06.20147751"
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_pdf = "http://medrxiv.org/cgi/content/short/2020.07.06.20147751.full.pdf"
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
+++