+++
draft = false
abstract = "Background. SARS-CoV-2 emerged in China in December 2019 as new cause of severe viral pneumonia (CoVID-19) reaching Europe by late January 2020. We validated the WHO-recommended assay and describe the epidemiology of SARS-CoV-2 and community-acquired respiratory viruses (CARVs). Methods. Naso-oropharyngeal swabs (NOPS) from 7663 individuals were prospectively tested by the Basel-S-gene and the WHO-based E-gene-assay (Roche) using Basel-N-gene-assay for confirmation. CARVs were tested in 2394 NOPS by multiplex-NAT, including 1816 together with SARS-CoV-2. Results. Basel-S-gene and Roche-E-gene-assays were concordant in 7475 cases (97.5%) including 825 (11%) positive samples. In 188 (2.5%) discordant cases, SARS-CoV-2 loads were significantly lower than in concordant positive ones and confirmed in 105 NOPS. Adults were more likely to test positive for SARS-CoV-2, while children were more likely to test CARV-positive. CARV co-infections with SARS-CoV-2 occurred in 1.8%. SARS-CoV-2 replaced other CARVs within 3 weeks reaching 48% of all detected respiratory viruses followed by rhino/enterovirus (13%), influenzavirus (12%), coronavirus (9%), respiratory syncytial (6%) and metapneumovirus (6%). Conclusions. The differential diagnosis for respiratory infections was broad during the early pandemic, affecting infection control and treatment decisions. We discuss the role of pre-existing immunity and competitive CARV replication for the epidemiology of SARS-CoV-2 infection among adults and children."
abstract_short = ""
authors = ["Karoline Leuzinger", "Tim Roloff", "Rainer Gosert", "Kirstine Soegaard", "Klaudia Naegele", "Katharina Rentsch", "Roland Bingisser", "Christian Nickel", "Hans Pargger", "Stefano Bassetti", "Julia Anna Bielicki", "Nina Khanna", "Sarah Tschudin Sutter", "Andreas Widmer", "Vladimira Hinic", "Manuel Battegay", "Adrian Egli", "Hans H Hirsch"]
date = "2020-07-08"
image = ""
image_preview = ""
math = false
publication = ""
publication_preprint = "medrxiv"
publication_short = ""
title = "Epidemiology of SARS-CoV-2 Emergence Amidst Community-Acquired Respiratory Viruses"
doi = "10.1101/2020.07.07.20148163"
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_pdf = "http://medrxiv.org/cgi/content/short/2020.07.07.20148163.full.pdf"
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
+++