+++
draft = false
abstract = "Background: The Oise department in France has been heavily affected by COVID-19 in early 2020. Methods: Between 30 March and 4 April 2020, we conducted a retrospective closed cohort study among pupils, their parents and siblings, as well as teachers and non-teaching staff of a high-school located in Oise. Participants completed a questionnaire that covered history of fever and/or respiratory symptoms since 13 January 2020 and had blood tested for the presence of anti-SARS-CoV-2 antibodies. The infection attack rate (IAR) was defined as the proportion of participants with confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection based on antibody detection. Blood samples from two blood donor centres collected between 23 and 27 March 2020 in the Oise department were also tested for presence of anti-SARS-CoV-2 antibodies. Findings: Of the 661 participants (median age: 37 years), 171 participants had anti-SARS-CoV-2 antibodies. The overall IAR was 25.9% (95% confidence interval (CI) = 22.6-29.4), and the infection fatality rate was 0% (one-sided 97.5% CI = 0-2.1). Nine of the ten participants hospitalised since mid-January were in the infected group, giving a hospitalisation rate of 5.3% (95% CI = 2.4-9.8). Anosmia and ageusia had high positive predictive values for SARS-CoV-2 infection (84.7% and 88.1%, respectively). Smokers had a lower IAR compared to non-smokers (7.2% versus 28.0%, P <0.001). The proportion of infected individuals who had no symptoms during the study period was 17.0% (95% CI = 11.2-23.4). The proportion of donors with anti-SARS-CoV-2 antibodies in two nearby blood banks of the Oise department was 3.0% (95% CI = 1.1-6.4). Interpretation: The relatively low IAR observed in an area where SARS-CoV-2 actively circulated weeks before confinement measures indicates that establishing herd immunity will take time, and that lifting these measures in France will be long and complex."
abstract_short = ""
authors = ["Arnaud Fontanet", "Laura Tondeur", "Yoann Madec", "Rebecca Grant", "Camille Besombes", "Nathalie Jolly", "Sandrine Fernandes Pellerin", "Marie-Noelle Ungeheuer", "Isabelle Cailleau", "Lucie Kuhmel", "Sarah Temmam", "Christele Huon", "Kuang-Yu Chen", "Bernadette Crescenzo", "Sandie Munier", "Caroline Demeret", "Ludivine Grzelak", "Isabelle Staropoli", "Timothee Bruel", "Pierre Gallian", "Simon Cauchemez", "Sylvie van der Werf", "Olivier Schwartz", "Marc Eloit", "Bruno Hoen"]
date = "2020-04-23"
image = ""
image_preview = ""
math = false
publication = ""
publication_preprint = "medrxiv"
publication_short = ""
title = "Cluster of COVID-19 in northern France: A retrospective closed cohort study"
doi = "10.1101/2020.04.18.20071134"
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_pdf = "http://medrxiv.org/cgi/content/short/2020.04.18.20071134.full.pdf"
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
+++