+++
draft = false
abstract = "Background: The rapid spread of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) around the world has caused a global pandemic, infecting millions of individuals worldwide, with an unprecedented impact in health care systems worldwide. Healthcare workers are one of the risk groups that need to be well characterized due to their strategic role in the management of patients, presently and in prevention of healthcare needs for future outbreaks. This study presents the results of the first SARS-CoV-2 seroprevalence study in the Northern Metropolitan Area of Barcelona, Spain. Methods: IgG SARS-CoV2 antibodies were analyzed in serum samples from 7563 healthcare workers of the Northern Metropolitan Area of Barcelona taken during the pandemia (from May 4th to May 22nd, 2020) by chemiluminescence assays. Results: A total of 779 of 7563 (10.3%) healthcare workers had detectable anti-SARS-CoV-2 IgG (specific for either S1/S2 or N antigens). No significant differences were observed between those working at primary care or at the reference hospital. Interestingly, in 29 (8.53%) of the previously confirmed positive reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (rRT-PCR) patients SARS-CoV-2 IgG (S1/S2 or recombinant N antigen) were negative. Conclusion: Seroprevalence of anti-SARS-CoV-2 IgG in the healthcare workers of the Nord Metropolitan Area of Barcelona was significantly increased in comparison with the general population in the same geographical area. These results give us an important insight for a better understanding of SARS-CoV-2 epidemiology, in a collective that is essential for the response against this pandemic."
abstract_short = ""
authors = ["Gema Fernández-Rivas", "Biviana Quirant-Sánchez", "Vicky González", "Maria Doladé", "Eva Martinez-Caceres", "Monica Piña", "Joan Matllo", "Oriol Estrada", "Ignacio Blanco"]
date = "2020-06-26"
image = ""
image_preview = ""
math = false
publication = ""
publication_preprint = "medrxiv"
publication_short = ""
title = "Seroprevalence of SARS-CoV-2 IgG Specific Antibodies among Healthcare Workers in the Northern Metropolitan Area of Barcelona, Spain, after the first pandemic wave"
doi = "10.1101/2020.06.24.20135673"
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_pdf = "http://medrxiv.org/cgi/content/short/2020.06.24.20135673.full.pdf"
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
+++