+++
draft = false
abstract = "Background. Several studies indicated that children seem to be less frequently infected with SARS-CoV-2 and potentially less contagious. To examine the spread of SARS-CoV-2 we combined both RT-PCR testing and serology in children in the most affected region in France, during the COVID-19 epidemic. Methods. From April 14, 2020 to May 12, 2020, we conducted a cross-sectional prospective, multicenter study. Healthy controls and pauci-symptomatic children from birth to age 15 years were enrolled by 27 ambulatory pediatricians. A nasopharyngeal swab was taken for detection of SARS-CoV-2 by RT-PCR and a microsample of blood for micro-method serology. Results. Among the 605 children, 322 (53.2%) were asymptomatic and 283 (46.8%) symptomatic. RT-PCR testing and serology were positive for 11 (1.8%) and 65 (10.7%) of all children, respectively. Only 3 children were RT-PCR-positive without any antibody response have been detected. The frequency of positivity on RT-PCR for SARS-CoV-2 was significantly higher in children with positive serology than those with a negative one (12.3% vs 0.6%, p<0.001). Contact with a person with proven COVID-19 increased the odds of positivity on RT-PCR (OR 7.8, 95% confidence interval [1.5; 40.7]) and serology (15.1 [6.6; 34.6]). Conclusion. In area heavily affected by COVID-19, after the peak of the first epidemic wave and during the lockdown, the rate of children with positive SARS-CoV-2 RT-PCR was very low (1.8%), but the rate of positive on serology was higher (10.7%). Most of PCR positive children had at the same time, positive serology suggesting a low risk of transmission."
abstract_short = ""
authors = ["Robert Cohen", "Camille Jung", "Naim Ouldali", "Aurelie Sellam", "Christophe Batard", "Fabienne Cahn-Sellem", "Annie Elbez", "Alain Wollner", "Olivier Romain", "Francois Corrard", "Said Aberrane", "Nathalie Soismier", "Rita Creidy", "Mounira Smati-Lafarge", "Odile Launay", "Stephane Bechet", "Emmanuelle Varon", "Corinne Levy"]
date = "2020-06-14"
image = ""
image_preview = ""
math = false
publication = ""
publication_short = ""
publication_preprint = "medrxiv"
title = "Assessment of spread of SARS-CoV-2 by RT-PCR and concomitant serology in children in a region heavily affected by COVID-19 pandemic"
doi = "10.1101/2020.06.12.20129221"
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_pdf = "http://medrxiv.org/cgi/content/short/2020.06.12.20129221.full.pdf"
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
+++