+++
draft = false
abstract = "Abstract                                 Objectives                  Initial reports indicate adequate performance of some serology-based severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) assays. However, additional studies are required to facilitate interpretation of results, including how antibody levels impact immunity and disease course.                                                Methods                  A total of 967 subjects were tested for IgG antibodies reactive to SARS-CoV-2, including 172 suspected cases of SARS-CoV-2, 656 plasma samples from healthy donors, 49 sera from patients with rheumatic disease, and 90 specimens from individuals positive for polymerase chain reaction (PCR)–based respiratory viral panel. A subgroup of SARS-CoV-2 PCR-positive cases was tested for IgM antibodies by proteome array method.                                                Results                  All specificity and cross-reactivity specimens were negative for SARS-CoV-2 IgG antibodies (0/795, 0%). Positive agreement of IgG with PCR was 83% of samples confirmed to be more than 14 days from symptom onset, with less than 100% sensitivity attributable to a case with severe immunosuppression. Virus-specific IgM was positive in a higher proportion of cases less than 3 days from symptom onset. No association was observed between mild and severe disease course with respect to IgG and IgM levels.                                                Conclusions                  The studied SARS-CoV-2 IgG assay had 100% specificity and no adverse cross-reactivity. Measures of IgG and IgM antibodies did not predict disease severity in our patient population."
abstract_short = ""
authors = ["William S Phipps", "Jeffrey A SoRelle", "Quan-Zhen Li", "Lenin Mahimainathan", "Ellen Araj", "John Markantonis", "Chantale Lacelle", "Jyoti Balani", "Hiren Parikh", "E Blair Solow", "David R Karp", "Ravi Sarode", "Alagarraju Muthukumar"]
date = "2020-07-15"
image = ""
image_preview = ""
math = false
publication = "American Journal of Clinical Pathology"
publication_preprint = ""
publication_short = ""
title = "SARS-CoV-2 Antibody Responses Do Not Predict COVID-19 Disease Severity"
doi = "10.1093/ajcp/aqaa123"
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_pdf = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
+++