+++
draft = false
abstract = "Abstract
	  
	    Objective:
	    At present, there is a paucity of evidence guiding clinicians on the optimal approach to safely screen patients for SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) infection prior to a non-emergent hospital procedure. In this report we describe our experience in screening for SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) prior to semi-urgent and urgent hospital procedures.
	  
	  
	    Design:
	    Retrospective case series.
	  
	  
	    Setting:
	    Single tertiary medical center.
	  
	  
	    Participants:
	    Patients ≥ 18 years of age who had semi-urgent or urgent hospital procedures or surgeries.
	  
	  
	    Methods:
	    625 patients were screened for SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) using a combination of phone questionnaire (7 days prior to the anticipated procedure), RT-PCR and chest CT, between 3/1/2020 and 4/30/2020.
	  
	  
	    Results:
	    Of the 625 patients, 520 scans (83.2%) were interpreted as normal, 1 (0.16%) as having typical features, 18 scans (2.88%) as having indeterminate features, and 86 (13.76%) as having atypical features of SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19). A total of 640 RT-PCRs were performed, with 1 positive result (0.15%) in a patient with CT scan read as atypical. Out of 18 patients with chest CTs categorized as indeterminate, 5 underwent repeat negative RT-PCR nasopharyngeal swab one week after their initial swab. 1 patient with chest CT categorized as typical had a follow up repeat negative RT-PCR, indicating that the chest CT was likely a false positive. None of the patients, after surgery, developed signs or symptoms suspicious of COVID-19, needing repeat RT-PCR or CT scan.
	  
	  
	    Conclusion:
	    In our experience, chest CT scanning did not prove provide valuable information in detecting asymptomatic cases of SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) in our low prevalence population.
	  "
abstract_short = ""
authors = ["Aditya Shah", "Lara A. Walkoff", "Ronald S. Kuzo", "Matthew R. Callstrom", "Michael J. Brown", "Michael L. Kendrick", "Bradly J. Narr", "Elie Berbari"]
date = "2020-07-16"
image = ""
image_preview = ""
math = false
publication = "['Infection Control & Hospital Epidemiology']"
publication_preprint = ""
publication_short = ""
title = "The utility of chest CT and RT-PCR screening of asymptomatic patients for SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) prior to semi-urgent or urgent hospital procedures"
doi = "10.1017/ice.2020.331"
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_pdf = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
+++